dependency_chain: the lack of Terraform module dependencies: it is not possible to dependency chain two modules in Terraform because it’s simply not supported. Terragrunt solves this by implementing the dependencies statement that allows other modules to be executed first.
retries: no retries on known errors: some Terraform errors will go away just by rerunning the apply command
module_sharing: no possibility to deploy the same version of a Terraform module across all our environments: let’s say we want to make a change to our VPC Terraform module. Ideally, that change should be deployed as an artifact, tagged with a proper version and distributed to all environments. Terragrunt solves this by sourcing a particular branch/tag for its deployment.
dry_backend: no possibility of keeping the Terraform backend configuration DRY across all our environments (S3 state bucket, region, DynamoDB table etc): for every sub-component (EKS, S3, IAM, MSK etc) of our infrastructure we had to redefine the Terraform backend configuration over and over again. More sub-components, and more pain for our SRE team. Terragrunt solves this issue by using the path_relative_to_include() function to figure out the current directory.
global_plan: when the Terraform code grows significantly enough, it must be organised into folders. Terraform has no way of running a global plan or apply command across all those folders. Terragrunt has a plan-all and apply-all to make it easier to run the Terraform code across all folders.